# URL: https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_customer_engagement_data_model.htm
# Title: Customer Engagement
# Hash: 4c8d551ced628f9643c6ddaac39004b1a224c36cf264ed5bab4c10691764c8a8

# Customer Engagement

These objects are available for Life Sciences Cloud for Customer Engagement.

-   **[Account Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_account_management.htm)**  
    Account Management in the Life Sciences industry is crucial for organizations to effectively manage their relationships with healthcare providers (HCPs) and healthcare organizations (HCOs). The profile information serves as a foundation for various operational activities within the organization, providing a comprehensive view of HCPs and HCOs including their contact and social network details, specialties, affiliations, business licenses, ratings to segment and categorize HCPs and HCOs, as well as territory and product, and team-specific details. Life Sciences Cloud extends the Salesforce Core Account data model allowing organizations to create a holistic view of their customers providing up-to-date information in support of their business priorities.
-   **[Activity Plans](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_activity_plans.htm)**  
    Activity plans allow administrators to define goals for specific employees, including targeted accounts, plan cycle duration, types of activities, links to products, and weight of activity type. Employees and managers can review and edit these goals before final approval by the administrator. After plans are approved, employees execute activities against their goals, with the option to request changes during an active plan. Charts provide a visual representation of the employee's progress toward goals.
-   **[App Alerts](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_app_alerts.htm)**  
    App Alerts keep users informed of critical updates, events, and insights that require timely action, helping to prevent missed opportunities. These alerts can deliver messages from admins and managers, as well as system-triggered updates and external recommendations, enabling users to act directly or dismiss suggestions with feedback. Serving as a direct, immediate communication channel, App Alerts integrate across components to streamline teamwork and enhance commercial engagement.
-   **[Consent Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_consent_management.htm)**  
    Consent Management captures and honors healthcare provider consent and communication preferences across subscriptions and channels. Increase engagement and improve relationships by personalizing healthcare provider communications while ensuring privacy and compliance.
-   **[Field Email](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_field_email.htm)**  
    Field Email streamlines the email creation process, enhances efficiency, and ensures professional and compliant communication that aligns with brand guidelines. Predefined email templates ensure compliance with regulations like GDPR and CAN-SPAM while maintaining brand consistency. Customization options such as dynamic variables and content fragments, allow for personalized messages that resonate with recipients. Tracking key performance metrics like opens and clicks enables users to optimize their email campaigns effectively.
-   **[General Events](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_general_events.htm)**  
    General Events enable users to log and manage various non-customer related activities. With the Planner tool, users can easily create, view, and manage General Events in their schedules. Users can also add employees to a General Event for team collaborations.
-   **[Intelligent Content](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_intelligent_content.htm)**  
    Intelligent Content facilitates marketing strategies by enabling direct and interactive communications with healthcare professionals (HCPs). Sales and medical teams can deliver personalized presentations based on real-time feedback and analytics, enhancing the impact of their interactions. By continuously refining and optimizing marketing messages and strategies through data collection and analysis, Intelligent Content ensures that they are relevant and responsive to HCP needs and preferences. Intelligent Content capabilities include analytics and optimized user interfaces, offering a comprehensive solution for targeted content delivery in both planned and unplanned presentations.
-   **[Key Account Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_key_account_management.htm)**  
    Key Account Management enables Key Account Managers (KAM) to strategically manage and engage with their most important customers. By using comprehensive account and territory plans, KAMs can set clear business objectives, track progress, and ensure alignment across global, affiliate, and territory levels. This structured approach enhances customer targeting accuracy and drives effective execution of strategic initiatives. With capabilities for creating multiple plans, defining specific objectives, and assigning tasks, the Key Account Management ensures alignment, collaboration, and effective execution of strategies to achieve desired business outcomes.
-   **[Life Sciences Commercial Engagement Configuration](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_commercial_configuration.htm)**  
    The Life Sciences Commercial Engagement Configuration objects store settings and configurations for many Customer Engagement features. In some cases, you can control a feature’s behavior by assigning configurations to specific profiles or users. Other configurations apply to all the users in an org.
-   **[Life Sciences Workflow Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_workflow_management.htm)**  
    Configure workflows for Commercial Engagement objects. As users advance records through the steps in a workflow path, unique permissions apply based on each step and the conditions met for that step. Control data permissions for create, update, and delete operations, and control user actions based on a user's role in the workflow. Validate custom business rules and enforce a status transition action checklist. Configure additional actions such as calling Platform Events for both mobile and web platforms.
-   **[Lists and Filters](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_lists_and_filters.htm)**  
    Quickly identify a target group of accounts by using Lists and Filters. Static lists are manually-curated lists of accounts that remain fixed. Users can add or remove accounts individually. Dynamic filters apply to a list of accounts that updates based on user pre-defined criteria, and show sortable relevant fields that users add. By using dynamic filters, users can quickly associate the group of accounts with tailored actions, saving time and efforts by removing the need for repetitive manual updates. Lists and Filters streamline workflows by enabling users to identify, interact with, and act on relevant accounts.
-   **[Medical Inquiries](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_medical_inquiries.htm)**  
    Capture critical questions from healthcare professionals such as medical inquiries, adverse events, and product quality complaints with Medical Inquiries. Inquiries can come from multiple channels such as face-to-face visits, remote engagements, or contact centers. Inquiries require a quick and compliant response by the right individuals, typically medical experts like Medical Science Liaisons and Medical Communication Specialists. Medical Science Liaisons (MSLs) are skilled professionals who can answer scientific questions about drug details, interactions, off-label usage, and clinical product information. Medical Communication Specialists work in contact center environments and partner with MSLs to resolve inquiries, including incoming patient and consumer calls about product information, side effects, and adverse reactions.
-   **[Mobile Metadata](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_mobile_metadata.htm)**  
    Mobile Metadata represents a metadata cache for the Life Sciences Cloud for Customer Engagement mobile application.
-   **[Mobile Sync](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_mobile_sync.htm)**  
    The Mobile Sync objects store information about data transactions synchronized from the Life Sciences Cloud for Customer Engagement mobile application. This information includes individual data transactions and supporting summary and logging information.
-   **[Next Best](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_next_best.htm)**  
    The Next Best intelligent component is an AI-predictive tool that helps sales representatives to prioritize and personalize their customer interactions. Next Best Customer, Next Best Action, and Next Best Message together comprise the Next Best intelligent family. Next Best Customer surfaces the top accounts within a territory. Next Best Action suggests timely actions on a weekly basis, such as visits and emails. Next Best Message provides tailored and relevant messages for each product associated with the account. These recommendations are dynamically generated based on the real-time data, allowing field sales teams to act quickly or dismiss as needed. Next Best recommendations guide users to concentrate on the right accounts at the right time in the right channel to deliver the right message, fostering strong customer relationships.
-   **[Product Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_product_management.htm)**  
    Product Management centers on products, which are essential for business activities within the system. Products are modeled in a hierarchy that can mirror a company's SKU structure and are used in scenarios such as selling to pharmacies and delivering messages and samples to healthcare professionals. Product alignment is key to ensuring that users have access to products and related data to perform their jobs effectively. To maintain compliance and adherence to regulatory standards, user access to products can be controlled. Users can access and discuss only products available to them and not restricted for the target customer.
-   **[Visit Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_provider_visit_management.htm)**  
    Visit Management supports the call planning and execution process in the Life Sciences Industry. Field users can engage compliantly with accounts through various channels such as face-to-face, phone, and remote. With integrated intelligent content and remote engagement capabilities, field sales representatives and medical teams can plan, execute, and report on visits to healthcare providers and healthcare organizations. Information entered in a provider visit typically includes product details, product messages, presentations, marketing items and samples. Provider Visit Management also supports various compliance requirements regarding sample eligibility, sample limits and allocations, and e-signature capture.
-   **[Remote Engagement](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_remote_engagement.htm)**  
    Enable sales and medical teams to connect with healthcare professionals virtually across multiple channels, with interactive and compliant content, data collection capabilities, and technology flexibility. The benefits of Remote Engagement include accessibility, compliance with regulations like GDPR, increased productivity, convenience in scheduling, and the ability to create interactions through video, voice, and digital assets. Users can plan, launch, conduct, and finish remote calls or meetings, by using tracking, screen sharing, remote signatures, and feedback capture.
-   **[Samples Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_samples_management.htm)**  
    Enable pharmaceutical companies to efficiently handle and distribute drug samples to healthcare providers. Enhance drug sales and keep healthcare providers informed about the safe and effective use of products, leading to quicker treatments. Track and manage sales representative inventories of samples, ensuring compliance with regulations, and maintaining accurate records of distribution. Effective sample management is crucial for supporting healthcare providers and low-income patients, and ensuring ethical practices and regulatory compliance.
-   **[Segmentation](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_segmentation.htm)**  
    Group accounts based on specific conditions. Segmentations are reusable across different areas (such as sample limits) to distribute or assign elements to segments of accounts with the same set of criteria. There are two types of segmentations: static and dynamic. Static segmentation maintains the assignment even after the initial assignment. Dynamic segmentation changes based on account status or logic changes. Use Segmentation to assign and restrict of various elements without the need for individual account management.
-   **[Subject Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_subject_management.htm)**  
    Use Subjects to organize and manage information across various functions. Users can add topics to medical inquiries as subjects, facilitating automatic queue assignments and building a knowledge repository. Subjects can also be applied to medical insights and email templates for easy searching by subject filtering.
-   **[Surveys](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_surveys.htm)**  
    Surveys provide Life Science companies with an easy-to-use solution for creating, distributing, and completing surveys. Surveys help ensure regulatory compliance, support accurate data management, and deliver actionable insights that enhance research outcomes and enable informed decision-making. Additionally, Surveys include an offline survey capability in the Life Sciences Cloud mobile app, allowing users to collect responses without an internet connection. When back online, data is automatically synced, ensuring seamless integration with the feedback and analytics processes.
-   **[System Objects](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_system_objects.htm)**  
    System objects are related to core system functionality used by Life Sciences Cloud for Commercial Engagement.
-   **[Territory Management](/docs/atlas.en-us.life_sciences_dev_guide.meta/life_sciences_dev_guide/life_sciences_territory_management.htm)**  
    Territory Management supports strategically organizing territories and aligning healthcare providers (HCPs) and healthcare organizations (HCOs) to territories. Use Territory Management to optimize resource allocation and improve engagement with HCPs/HCOs. Life Sciences Cloud enables industry-specific territory management features that are integrated with Salesforce Enterprise Territory Management.